holy cow this big bowl shouldn't be
there this is why it stranded
[Music]
you kind of never know what we're gonna
find when we open up an animal
we found nutrition labels sometimes
tarps plastics we had a dolphin that
swam into a very large speedo
[Music]
we very much are the CSI or bones of the
Marine Mammal and sea turtle or alt of a
large bulk of what we do is carcass
recovery and doing the post-mortem exam
so that we can learn as much as we can
our program responds 24/7 to calls of
sick injured dead or distressed marine
mammals and sea turtles in our area we
can respond to anything as small as a
salad plate sized turtle to a two
thousand pound manatee
[Music]
it's a green sea turtle these guys are
generally herbivorous you can see their
beak here that's serrated because they
eat sea grass that's really good for
pulling and tearing and ingesting the
seagrass so turtles really only have one
body cavity so if you think about how
they would normally do surgery or
autopsy on a human they go through here
through the chest we actually try to
take all of this off intact
so these are the pectoral muscles this
is what the turtle uses to swim if very
big pecs because this is how they get
most of their their power propulsion
through the water green sea turtles
actually got their name for the color of
their fat and they get that from the sea
grass that they eat so now we're going
to take the pecks off
next we're gonna pull out the heart the
heart sits right here we're actually
going to take a few extra pictures of
the heart because it doesn't look very
good it looks bad and it feels bad
there are plaques present along the
aorta and the atria it's also on the
pericardial sac as well as the heart
there's blood in the chambers reptiles
only have three chambers the atria aorta
and the ventricle there's some little
plaques so generally these little white
specks we don't see I am gonna take a
couple sections of this to sample
because it is unusual they really just
have this one cavity sort of like a
turtle in a bowl holy cow this big bulge
here shouldn't be there that's the
urinary bladder it's generally way down
here Wow
gall bladder is thickened the plaques on
the heart are also on the liver
liber you usually want to be a little
bit more substantial of an organ it's
not quite as jelly like the tissue
integrity is a little bit stronger and a
liver and the outer appearance almost
has a nice kind of bluish purple color
to it this one has a lot of fluid
buildup than that I think it might have
something to do with what is happening
back here with the the megacolon I don't
know if this would be like a precursor
to golf stones we send them off to
veterinary pathologists to be able to
tell us really what's going on thank you
the intestines should look essentially
like this throughout what we're finding
here you can see there's this massive
obstruction it's likely full of feces
this is why we open eyes the animal this
is why it's stranded everything was
being pulled in because of this mess
right here happen from this trauma is a
lack of nerve function to the back end
of the turtle without nerve function you
sort of the turtle has no control over
its sink tears over the back therefore
was unable to defecate in urinate which
has caused this backup of that megacolon
so we're about to pull out yeah that
megacolon the tail should be out because
of this megacolon it was actually
pulling the tail in
and then developed this huge blockage so
he hadn't been able to pass a feather in
here
okay weight of feces and megacolon is
1.39
five kilograms so this is actual tissue
that the turtle made to help deal with
its megacolon they start to build this
up to kind of help wall off whatever is
happening it's a good indication that
this animal had been suffering with us
and trying to deal with it for a while
this will help us when we get another
turtle that kind of presentation we're
able to you know understand what's going
on
so that we get another one that presents
similarly you know we may make that
decision a little sooner we try to learn
from each of them so we're pulling out
the kidneys now turtles need fresh water
just like you and I do but they can't
drink salt water so they get all of
their hydration from their food and then
they have extremely efficient kidneys to
be able to conserve their water both
kidneys are very congested so what she
will take out next is the once the lungs
are the first organ that's right
underneath a turtle's carapace which is
why those boat strikes and things like
that are so damaging to sea turtles is
because if it penetrates through the
that modified ribcage a turtle's
carapace the lungs are typically one of
the first organs out that boat and
propeller are going to hit this is a
turtle's esophagus these are called
papillae and this helps oh is a turtle
in just food they take in seawater as
well then you can expel that sea water
so they don't swallow it
so when we started the necropsy today we
knew that there was an issue going on
towards the rear of the animals
gastrointestinal tract megacolon
we were able to confirm that today once
we got in there we did see that big mass
with over a kilogram of feces and things
I had the animal wasn't able to pass so
given what was happening with the mega
colon it doesn't surprise me that then
you know the other organs that go into
digestion were affected like the spleen
and the liver and the pancreas so sadly
we don't know what caused this the
scoliosis it was a result of some sort
of trauma we just don't know what that
trauma is we do know why that's an
illustrated and what was causing the
issue unfortunately we see about 40
percent of the animals we recover have a
human interaction and a big chunk of
that forty percent are both strikes over
80 percent of that subset of animals are
both strikes it's only about one out of
every four that come in alive and they
often don't survive their lungs sit
right here so when they hit get hit by
boats that causes an issue often
piercing the lung their kidneys sit
right here so if it's if it's towards
the rear of the animal it will likely
hit the kidneys so while these shells
are great to protect them from sharks
and other big things out in the ocean
they don't do a great job protecting
them from boats we see a lot of a lot of
death and a lot of human interaction and
that does affect you but when we when we
get in here we really try hard to sort
of put on our science hat so that we can
learn from these animals and help help
the rest of them that are out there we
don't want to become hardened to it but
we do have to sort of set that aside
when we're in here to do our job and
then you know go home and deal with it
elsewhere but
you
[Music]